The Joe Rogan experience.
This idea,
this concept is so fantastic to me to take elite gr
elite grapplers and pay them for matches and then stream it online and
flow grappling is doing this and they're very successful. Yes. A lot,
lot of jujitsu people are tuning into these things and, and, you know, it's,
it's real, really become a hit. Um.
It, a true key in the development of any sport is some kind of,
uh, organization which showcases it, uh, for mixed martial arts.
It was the UFC and grappling always struggled with, uh,
the idea of showcasing the skills of the athletes. Um,
there were local shows when,
when you and I started Jud through those crazy local shows where people would
just informally coming and compete against each other. Um,
but there was nothing that had any kind of overall vision or sustained
program over time.
And that I believe is what flow grappling is trying to do here.
They're trying to give something a grappling version of what the U S he has done
for mixed martial arts. And, uh, uh,
the athlete pay is improved dramatically over, uh, earlier years.
And athlete exposure is massively improved. So it's a very encouraging thing.
And the productions. Excellent. Yes, it's really good. It's uh,
great commentary. Great. It's something.
Where you could to takes someone who didn't know much about grappling a friend
of yours, invite them over, watch it together. And, and they'll be, Hey,
that's an impressive sport. Like, as you said, the production looks like it's,
it's a legitimate sport,
as opposed to like going to the local high school on a Saturday and watching you
compete and, um, yeah. In, in that fashion.
Well,
one of the things that's made the sport more power is the approach that your
athletes take.
And many other athletes are following suit is that it's a very submission based
approach instead of just trying to score points,
because I think there's been a problem with these rule sets where,
I mean, even though Abu Dhabi's done an amazing job of showcasing elite,
grapplers, there's something weird about out there's score sets systems.
So the first was it first five minutes? There's no point score that's correct.
Yes. And then the next five minutes you score points. So,
so you get guys stalling out for five minutes.
So you almost guarantee a boring five minutes,
unless you have some sort of Marcela Garcia,
attacker who just ju just dives on submissions and goes after it right away,
which is not the norm. The norm is points based,
guys who are just trying to win. That's correct.
Um, as a general rule, you know, athletes are smart and they want to win.
So, um, they will, as a general rule,
always try to find the least risky way of attaining victory and doing the
minimum amount of work I, in order to get to a win. Um,
and yet the,
the spectators are demanding something else they're demanding entertainment.
And in the Sportage you did.
So the most entertaining thing you can do is to push the action towards
submission holds and submissions function and grappling the same way a knockout
punch does in boxing. And it's the most desired result.
It's also the most impressive result. If you think Joe,
back to when you first started jujitsu,
what was its primary appeal? Well,
I think for the overwhelming majority of practitioners of Judis,
who was the idea of submission.
I think that's the only appeal. Yeah. It's I don't,
I don't think you could ever say anybody. I find it appealing to win on points.
Yeah. Or.
It's ridiculous, or even worse on advantage. Yeah.
You just wrestle if you wanna do that. Yeah. Yeah.
Um, when, when you look at, uh, at Judit,
so what makes it remarkable is the idea that it's a form of grappling with the
outcome is determined in a way,
which it it's understandable to anyone it's it's surrender.
You make someone surrender to you, like, um, as impressive as, uh,
judo wrestling are sports,
the mechanism by which they win and Jude's case the eon throw,
they do have submissions in judo, but they're much less emphasized. Um,
and in wrestling at pinned, they're not as decisive. Like, you know,
it's easy to imagine someone who got pinned with their shoulders on the mat for
three seconds, but came back to win the fight.
That's not a difficult thing to conceive of.
It's easy to conceive of someone who got thrown pretty hard and still kept
fighting and won. But when you surrender that, that's you saying,
I quit it's over.
And that's the most definitive form of victory possible in, in any, uh,
form of grappling. And that I think was the true appeal of jujitsu.
The further you get away from the idea that jujitsu is about control leading
to submission, the less interesting the sport becomes. And, uh,
we must do as much as possible to push athletes towards
that, that, that form of, uh, that expression of UTSU,
don't just win by the minimum amount to get the job done,
but go the extra distance and try to win by submission. Now,
you just mentioned the name of Marcella Garcia.
He was one of a handful of athletes. You, you see, um,
harder Gracie was another who at a time, when the rule set didn't demand,
it went out of their way to go the extra distance and fight
from beginning to end for submission.
And what do you notice about those athletes? Their legend they're legends.
They're loved to a degree which all those other athletes, and don't forget,
they both lost, okay. They both had their losses, they weren't undefeatable,
but they're legends because of the way they fought as much as
for the victories themselves. Yeah. They represented true jujitsu.
They represented the ideal of controller mission.
And there's a sense in which athletes have to understand,
if you want to build a brand in jujitsu,
you can't just go with that minimalist approach of do enough to win,
be happy with that.
And you have to go into expressing the ideal of jujitsu.
Now, the natural response on the part of many organizers is to try and
create rules,
which force athletes against their will to go the extra distance.
That was the intention in ADCC, the Abu Dhabi, um, uh, approach.
They, they took away points in the first five minutes.
So that athletes would be encouraged to go for submission holds.
Now some of them were, but as you correctly pointed out, most of them weren't,
they actually used it, not as a means of encouraging submission,
but actually avoiding any form of contact and making for a very boring first
five minutes in any cases. Um,
so what I truly believe is that it's,
there's never going to be a rule set, which forces athletes towards submission.
The way it's gonna change is through culture. It's gotta come.
I believe from coaches,
creating a culture athletes strive for a higher ideal in jujitsu,
which is control to submission rather than minimum
advantage or points to score a win and, and be happy.
It's gotta come from a training room culture rather than rules.
A good athlete can always game rules to get the
minimum, uh, method of victory. There's always a way like,
just as a lawyer will find any interpretation of a,
of a law in order to get the result they seek.
So to an athlete can find any interpretation of the rules to get to the minimum.
When, so it's not gonna come from rules,
they've tried in the past and it just hasn't worked. In fact,
just actually had some negative connotations as, as you pointed out. Um,
so it's gotta come from a training room culture,
and that's what I try to do with my squad.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog Jr E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.